# NPM 101

NPM (Node Package Manager) is a [[JavaScript 101|JavaScript]] package manager (like PIP for Python).
## How to install

NPM comes preinstalled with [[Node.js 101|Node.js]].
## How to use

To check the version of NPM you can use this,

```bash
npm -v
npm --version
```

To create a new project you need to create a new configuration file, meaning a new [[package.json]] file.

### Download a dependency

To download a new library (module) that is needed as a dependency of the final project,

```bash
npm install --save <module-name>
```

the `--save` flag is essential since it saves the module in the [[package.json]] as well.

Now given a [[package.json]] file, we can download all the dependencies needed using,

```bash
npm install
```

### Delete a dependency

To delete a dependency from the project,

```bash
npm uninstall --save <module-name>
npm un --save <module-name>
npm remove --save <module-name>
npm rm --save <module-name>
```

Again, the `--save` flag is essential since it deletes the module from the [[package.json]] as well.
### Download a development dependency

To download a new library (module) that is **not** needed as a dependency of the final project,

```bash
npm install --save-dev <module-name>
```

the `--save-dev` flag is essential since it saves the module in the [[package.json]] as well.

Note that by default when someone installs the dependencies of the project, it will also install the development dependencies, to disable that we can use,

```bash
npm install --production
```

### Delete a development dependency

To delete a development dependency from the project,

```bash
npm uninstall --save-dev <module-name>
npm un --save-dev <module-name>
npm remove --save-dev <module-name>
npm rm --save-dev <module-name>
```

Again, the `--save-dev` flag is essential since it deletes the module from the [[package.json]] as well.

### Dependency Version

To control the version of a dependency, we can use the following,

```bash
npm install --save <module-name>@<version>
```

or use `--save-dev`.

To update a dependency we can use,

```bash
npm update <module-name>
```

### List all dependencies

To list all the dependencies of a project,

```bash
npm list
```

And to see only the first level depth of dependencies,

```bash
npm list --depth 0
```

### Global Module

All the dependencies until now were tied to the project, but if you want a module to be used for all projects on your machine, you may use,

```bash
npm install -g <module-name>
```

And to see where those global modules are being saved you can use,

```bash
npm root -g
```

## Where are the libraries coming from?

All the libraries live in this domain, [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/), and you can find there a lot of packages to download.